Information 

The script named run_analysis.R performs steps desciribed in course's assignment page

First all related data in columns are merged by using cbind() function. Then rbind() is used to append both test and train data 
together. 

After this step only those columns mean and std dev measure are filtered from the dataset. Consequently acitivity labels are substituted to data
Finally (30 X 6) Subject X activities dataset with means for each subject and activity type is extracted from data

Variables

x_train, y_train, x_test, y_test, features, subject_train and subject_test are data downloaded from the web page
train, test, append_all are the data created for merging all of the data, append_all merges both train and test dataset

finally tidy_data includes aversages by groups. 

Installed Packages:
dplyr, utils, 

Basic Info From Data Web Page


Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set 
Download: Data Folder, Data Set Description

Abstract: Human Activity Recognition database built from the recordings of 30 subjects performing activities of daily living (ADL) while carrying a waist-mounted smartphone with embedded inertial sensors.

Data Set Characteristics:  

Multivariate, Time-Series

Number of Instances:

10299

Area:

Computer

Attribute Characteristics:

N/A

Number of Attributes:

561

Date Donated

2012-12-10

Associated Tasks:

Classification, Clustering

Missing Values?

N/A

Number of Web Hits:

513467


Source:

Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz(1,2), Davide Anguita(1), Alessandro Ghio(1), Luca Oneto(1) and Xavier Parra(2)
1 - Smartlab - Non-Linear Complex Systems Laboratory
DITEN - Università degli Studi di Genova, Genoa (I-16145), Italy. 
2 - CETpD - Technical Research Centre for Dependency Care and Autonomous Living
Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya (BarcelonaTech). Vilanova i la Geltrú (08800), Spain
activityrecognition '@' smartlab.ws


Data Set Information:

The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain.

Check the README.txt file for further details about this dataset. 

A video of the experiment including an example of the 6 recorded activities with one of the participants can be seen in the following link: [Web Link]

An updated version of this dataset can be found at [Web Link]. It includes labels of postural transitions between activities and also the full raw inertial signals instead of the ones pre-processed into windows.


Attribute Information:

For each record in the dataset it is provided: 
- Triaxial acceleration from the accelerometer (total acceleration) and the estimated body acceleration. 
- Triaxial Angular velocity from the gyroscope. 
- A 561-feature vector with time and frequency domain variables. 
- Its activity label. 
- An identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment.



